---
layout: post
title:  "Depression and Me"
date:   2014-11-26 13:11:40
image:
  teaser: emotions.jpg
---

**Forward**

This blog post is really hard for me to write, but I feel like it's a post
that needs to be written. I've had a really stressful couple of months, and
it's brought me to the lowest low I've ever been at. The kind of low where
your support network kind of falls apart and you have nowhere to go. However,
I'm on the other side of it now, and I've started taking medicine for it.

I wanted to put some of my thoughts and experiences from the past month down in
one place. It was really hard for me to do, and it exposes some things about
me that I'm very uncomfortable exposing, but it's something I needed to do. I
don't want to ever feel like that again, and I don't want anyone else to feel
like that. Not everyone goes through depression the same way, but here's my
struggle. Maybe it will help others understand and help.

Note: This was forged from pure emotion. It will ramble some and move
tangentially, but I won't change it. I won't go back and edit it. I want you
to get the unsanitized version of this so you can get a glimpse into my mind
rather than just what I want you to see.

---

**A Brief History of Me**

To start off, I've never exactly been the happiest
of people. I used to prefer to sit back and make sarcastic jokes about things
rather than participate in them. The two hardest parts of my day are trying to
conjure up a reason to get out of bed in the morning, and coming home to an
empty apartment in the evenings. It's a tough place to be, but I didn't think
there was anything I could do about it really.

A few months ago, I decided that I was tired of living like this. It wasn't
fulfilling, it didn't feel good, and I knew there had to be a better way to do
things. It started gradually, I took up a couple new hobbies (namely dancing,
if you haven't browsed the rest of my blog) and reconnected with a couple of
old friends. It was an uphill battle, it really was. I thought coming up with
a reason to wake up was hard, coming up with a reason to go out and be with
people was even harder. Still, I pushed through it and tried to meet new
people and do new things.

Recently though, about a month ago, things in my life started going terribly
wrong. My grades were bad, I wasn't making rent, my car started to smoke, one
of my closer friends left me, family drama escalated to ridiculous levels, the
whole nine yards... It put me in a really dark place emotionally, really dark.
I was skipping classes, skipping work, and it took everything I had to not
skip dancing as well. Everything I did stopped feeling enjoyable. It's like
eating your favorite ice cream, but it tastes like ash in your mouth. You know
you should enjoy it, but for some reason, you just can't. The harder you try
to enjoy it, the worse it is.

**My Darkest Moment**

Finally, a week ago, I gave up. I just gave up, on myself, on my friends, on
my life, on everything. It was triggered when I woke up at 5:30 in the
morning. I'm not used to waking up early, I'm used to waking up late, so I
thought nothing of it. I just tried to go back to sleep, but I couldn't.
Instead, I ended up spending the next three hours rolling around in my bed,
thinking about how terrible everything is and how there's no way to fix it,
switching rapidly between crying hopelessly and trying to not care about
anything.

For the first time in my life, I contemplated killing myself... It's not
something I would ever do, trust me. Please don't come crashing through my
door with suicide prevention or anything. I just sat and seriously thought
about it. About the people it would affect, about the people it wouldn't. I
asked myself how long it would take for various people in my life to find out,
what they might miss about me, and what people it would affect the most. I
don't even know why I was dwelling on it, it's like a thought that just comes
into your mind and won't leave. It's like when you can't stop thinking about
how you embarrassed yourself, even from years ago. It just pops in and stays
for a while.

After that morning, I had given up on being happy. It felt like it had been so
long since I'd truly felt happy that I wouldn't feel it again. At the same
time, the suicidal thoughts terrified me in a way that I can't really explain.
I decided to talk to my doctor about it. I was tired of life, I was tired of
my problems, I was tired of my situation, but mostly I was tired of feeling
shitty all the time.

**The Diagnosis**

My doctor talked to me about my family history, my own feelings and emotions
now and in my past, and a few other things. She diagnosed me with something
called _double depression_. Double depression is apparently a toxic mixture of
two types of depression, _chronic depression_ and _major depression_. Chronic
depression is when you're depressed for a long time, usually years. WebMD
refers to it as a "veil of sadness". Major depression is the depression most
people deal with, it's what happens when things go wrong in your life and you
tumble into a down swing. Major depression happens to a lot of people, it's
generally worse than chronic depression, but it usually only lasts for a month
or so. My doctor told me I've been suffering from chronic depression for a
while, and with the recent stressors in my life I was also going through a
period of major depression. Double depression. What can I say, I don't do
anything half way.

She prescribed me _wellbutrin_. Wellbutrin is a common antidepressant that
only affects dopamine and epinephrin, rather than seratonin like other common
antidepressants. Wellbutrin is liked for it's relative lack of side effects.
The only serious one is that it can increase risk for epileptic seizures.
Considering I've never had a seizure, that shouldn't be a problem for me.

**The Upswing**

Immediately after I started taking the Wellbutrin, I felt better. For the
first time in a long time, I felt motivated. I actually wanted to do things,
specific things, rather than just go with whatever happened. I was able to get
up in the mornings, I was more productive at work, and I was able to pay
better attention in class. It was amazing, I didn't realize that I could
actually feel this way, that this might be how I'm supposed to feel. It was
like a heavy fog had been lifted, and I'm really thankful for that. I've got
back my ambition, my drive, and my hope.

**Conclusion**

To end this long rant/diary entry/word vomit, I wanted to say that the best
thing I've done for myself in a long time is go talk to my doctor and get on
antidepressants. It's changed my life in a single week. It's the reason I have
the courage to write this blog post. Depression is a very personal thing, and
when we're going through it, it can be hard to talk to anyone else about it.
Even your doctor. I know I felt that way, I didn't want to talk to my doctor
about it at all. Now I wish I had talked to her sooner. This blog post was
really hard to write, and it opens up some wounds and dark places, but it's
something I needed to get of my chest. Maybe, just maybe, somewhere down the
road, someone will read this and decide to go talk to their doctor and get the
help they need. Maybe it will help other people understand me a bit better, or
understand depression a bit better and push people they know to find help.
