---
layout: post
title:  "Street Smarts vs. Book Smarts"
date:   2014-08-14 13:11:40
image:
  teaser: books.jpg
---
Ever since I started becoming a part of the software development community in
Austin, I've heard an argument on street smarts vs. book smarts when it comes
to programming. I've been a part of discussions in cafes that went on for
hours about which is more important and which you should really try to focus
on when you're trying to build products or get a new job. Now that I'm going
into my senior year at the University of Texas here in Austin, this discussion
has actually become very important to me, and a source of inner turmoil as
well. I thought I would take this blog post as a chance to explore the topic
some.

**Street smarts? Book smarts? What are they even?**

So, just to make sure we're on the same page, let's define what I mean when I
talk about "street smarts" and "book smarts". Essentially, street smarts
translates to experience while book smarts translates to knowledge. Of course,
the split isn't that simple and clean, but that's an easy way to start looking
at it.

Street smarts is what you learn "in the streets", or on your job and side
projects. It's the skill you get when you wrangle code and work with the
frameworks and libraries you use every day. For us at the Frontside, it would
equate to experience working with our favorite technologies like Ember.js,
Karma, Mocha, etc. Book smarts are the more academic side of things. They're
what you learn at college, from doing research online, or reading books. It's
a more pragmatic toolset that gives you an idea what your code does behind the
scenes and gives you a collection of generic solutions to common coding
problems.

**So, which is better?**

Unfortunately, the answer to this question is really that they're both
important. You can get by without one or the other for a while, but eventually
almost every problem needs both to come up with a good solution. If you're
relying solely on street smarts, if you haven't encountered the problem or one
like it, you're gonna have a bad time. Alternatively, if you come at it with
only book smarts, it's going to be difficult to implement whatever solution
you come up with. You need the context and skill that's developed with
actually getting your hands dirty and working with the code, but you also want
the pragmatic higher level understanding that comes with researching and
learning about what the code is actually doing.

While you need both, you don't necessarily need them both equally. I've found
that here at the Frontside, it's mostly been a 90/10 split between street
smarts and book smarts. 90% of the time, the solution is easier to see and
easier to build when you have experience in the framework and with web
development in general. However, 10% of the time, the knowledge from book
smarts finds a better solution faster. Both are important, so you should make
sure to work on getting experience and getting knowledge.

**But how do I get more "smarts"?**

Getting more street smarts and more book smarts is surprisingly easy. Street
smarts you can get simply by doing your job and paying attention. If you
really want to get more street smarts, you don't have a job, or you want more
experience in a different industry, then the solution is personal projects.
They don't have to be amazing applications, they just have to be something.
Playing around with the tools you want to learn is the easiest way to learn
how to use them.

Book smarts require a little bit more effort and motivation, generally. If you
want to get more pragmatic knowledge, the solution is either going to school
or reading. College isn't the only place to take courses or learn, there are
great online resources such as Code School and MIT's opencourseware that offer
free or cheap classes for you to learn more. Alternatively, you can spend more
time reading. There are several great programming books available that can be
as general the Foundations of Computer Science, by Alfred Aho and Jeffrey
Ullman, or as specific as Artificial Intellegence: A Modern Approach, by
Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig. If there's something you want to learn,
chances are there's a book for it.

**Alright, but why is any of this important?**

Book smarts and street smarts come into play all the time at work and in
personal projects. For example, recently I was working in a code base that
used the Ruby Sequel adapter for it's back end. I have very little experience
with the back end, I'm almost entirely a front end guy. We were building a
query, and I knew what I wanted the query to do and look like, but I had no
idea how to build that with the Sequel adapter. If I had more street smarts,
more experience with Sequel, then it would've been a simple problem.

On the other hand, book smarts can help you tackle larger problems. One of our
current projects uses Backbone for the front end, but we wanted to have
simpler and more versatile routing. One of our developers went and connected
Router.js to our Backbone project to give us the ability to do amazing things
with the router. It's not something they've done before nor is it something
they'll probably have to do ever again. However, they had enough knowledge of
both Backbone and Router.js to connect them and make them work together,
building a beautiful Frankenstein monster.

Cultivating both street smarts and book smarts can lead to quicker, simpler
solutions. It can also lead to doing pretty amazing things in your code bases.
While the battle between which is better will rage on for who knows how long,
the best thing you can do is just get better with both of them. Maybe, next
time you have some free time, you should pick up that new functional
programming book your friend's been talking about and give it a read. What's
the worst that could happen?
