---
layout: post
title:  "Being an Apprentice Developer"
date:   2014-07-14 13:11:40
categories: programming update
---
So, I used to say that I was an apprentice developer, but I'm really more of
an apprentice human being at this point. I'm still in college, just barely
getting a taste of the real world and the dangers lurking within it. While
many people consider being an apprentice only a stepping stone or maybe
something not to be proud of, I see it as one of the best opportunities of my
life. Being an apprentice, you get unparalleled freedom and a chance to learn
from the best. I wouldn't trade my apprenticeship for the world.

**Who am I anyways?**

To tell you why I think being an apprentice is so awesome, let me tell you a
bit about myself. Right now, I'm going to UT to get my bachelors in computer
science. My original goal was to get into computer science research, and UT
has given me the terrific opportunity of pursuing that goal and actually
working with robots and trying to deploy them to the new computer science
building. It's great, and I love most of it, but as time goes on I find myself
yearning more and more to move away from school and into the real world.

This yearning has been added to in no small part by the place that I work
being so incredible. I'm currently an journeyman with The Frontside, I've been
working with them for just over a year now. It was kind of a tough choice for
me to apprentice under them to be honest. I met my boss, Charles, at a weekly
meet up one night. Everyone at the meet up was talking and after a killer
recommendation from a good friend of mine I had a time set up to come into the
office and check out The Frontside. When I got there, there were only two
employees in total, and all of us were in a small room in the corner of the
office. It reminded me of a start up atmosphere to be honest, but I loved it.
I loved the people I met, I loved the office, and I loved the work they were
doing. 

**If it was so awesome, why was it tough?**

Well, there was one catch, my starting pay was... Let's just say not ideal. It
was a hard blow when I saw the number, but I could understand it. I was an
apprentice after all. Even if I understood it, I had friends that were already
making 25-30 dollars an hour delivering coffee in big companies. I thought
about it for a bit, and decided that it was stupid to think of the money too
much. I had student loans to cover necessities, and parents to cover
groceries, so I was good. I agreed to the pay because I loved everything else
about the company, and I wanted to learn more than I wanted to make money. I
think that was probably one of the best decisions of my life. Since then, I've
leveled up as a developer, I've gotten a chance to see the company grow and
even take part in it.

Looking back, I honestly think that everyone who wants to be an apprentice
should start at a low pay. If you want money, go intern somewhere. If you want
to learn something, take an apprenticeship and just focus on soaking up as
much knowledge as you can from those around you. I'm especially lucky to be
one of the few employees here, so I get to work hand in hand with some of the
best programmers I know on a daily basis. As an apprentice, you need to
monopolize everyone else's time as much as you can. Ask them to show you
things, force them to explain it until you truly understand it, even if it's
frustrating. 

**Why being an apprentice is great**

Sure you get to hang out and learn from masters, but is that it? No, of course
not. I could hang out with terrific programmers in my free time if it was just
that, being an apprentice is so much more. It's a chance to make mistakes. In
fact, it's expected that you make mistakes, which is freeing in a way. When I
came into the office, I'll be honest, I'd only started working with Ruby a
month previous and had no real experience with it. One of my first projects
was mostly spent breaking things and then asking my boss how to fix them. I
learned so much from that cycle, getting a chance to work with real code is
truly priceless. Now, I'm getting a chance to learn javascript and Ember and
making plenty of new mistakes that I have to learn how to fix, but I'll be
better for it in the end. my coworkers will be as well. Helping me forces them
to make sure they understand the intricacies of the framework we're using, so
it's a win-win most of the time.

That's not the only win-win though. As an apprentice, you shouldn't just be a
nuisance, bugging everyone about things every few minutes. One of my
coworkers, Brandon, likes to talk about different peoples “value proposition”,
or what they could add to the company. As an apprentice, you have to add
something to the company, not just take away. You should add life to the
company, like an office cat with more potential. You should be able to make
things more interesting, give people fresh eyes to look at old topics, and
generally just be fun to have around. Your value proposition should be making
the office an even more awesome space and helping everyone around you be more
productive than they would be without you, even if it all just boils down to
helping with rubber ducky programming.

**A Final Note**

Confucius once said, “Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a
day in your life.” I believe these are words to live by. An apprenticeship
gives you a chance to find what you love and move forward with it. The way the
old guilds work, once you completed your apprenticeship, you became a
journeyman. Journeymen had to find a way to survive off of their craft, they
went from town to town for some amount of time trading work for food and
lodging. While the idea of journeyman may be different now, apprentices
haven't changed. We're still here, bumbling about as we learn, trying to
breath new life into old companies.
