---
layout: post
title:  "A Note From The Future"
date:   2014-09-11 13:11:40
categories: other update
---
I decided to take a moment and write out a letter that I hope to craft if I
manage to live until I'm 95. It's based loosely on the prologue to Bertrand
Russel's autobiography, which can be found
[here](http://users.drew.edu/jlenz/br-prolog.html). I wrote it to give myself
a clearer outlook on some of the things I'm going through right now, and as a
way to figure out the kind of person I would like to be as I grow older.

####What I Have Lived For####

Coming on my 95th year, I'd like to take a chance and reflect back on my life.
95 is longer than I ever thought I would live, but I'm glad to still be
cognizant enough to be a part of my great grandchildren's childhoods and write
short letters such as this. When I think back, I can see that my life has
mostly been guided by two things, making others happy and raising my family.

It's really easy to live your life to please only yourself, just doing what
you want when you want to. It's much harder to try and make others in your
life happy. When I was young and foolish, I tried to make everyone happy, even
complete strangers... With the wisdom of age, I realize now that you can never
make everyone happy, no matter how hard you try. Down that road lies only
depression and regret. Instead of making others happy, I found people that
have truly enriched my life and I've done my best to enrich theirs as well.
It's not about an equal trade, it's about doing good because it's the right
thing to do. When you find others who have that same value, it's easy to grow
together and become the best version of yourself while helping them do the
same.

Few people in this world are worth sacrificing your own well being for. When
it came down to it, I decided to dedicate myself to my family and close
friends. It was a hard decision to try and have kids and raise a family, but
I'm glad that's the decision we made. At first, I was hesitant. I had spent so
long trying to avoid the drama of my parents household, I didn't want to bring
about exactly what I was trying to avoid in my own household. It's different,
though, being a parent rather than a sibling. There is something magical about
bringing another human being into the world and passing on all of the
knowledge you yourself have learned over the years. I couldn't be more proud
of my children, my grand children, and the great things they've gone on to
accomplish. The opportunities that lay before the generations that came after
me are mind blowing, and I'm glad that we were able to tear down the barriers
that lay before them and let them become such amazing people.

There are many parts of my life that I didn't understand and that hurt me as I
went through them. Looking back, I realize now that they were simply
challenges for me to overcome, things to help strengthen me into the father I
needed to be and the grandfather I wanted to be. I've lived a full life now,
and I can think fondly of it without any regrets.
