---
layout: post
title:  "Fourth Week, Foundations and Fun"
date:   2014-10-03 18:11:40
---
This week, we ended up doing a lot of review. The reviews were helpful for
waltz and tango, but the other dances I feel like I already understand well
enough that I don't need to go over the basics too much. It was awesome in
west coast swing though, because we finally went over connection. Some of the
new follows are feeling better to dance with now, which is exciting. I'm also
figuring out who's better at west coast so I can use my full repertoire of
patterns and learn new ones when I dance with them rather than just going over
the basics. Speaking of west coast, I went to my first practice outside of
ballroom lessons this week. I met up with a friend of mine, Alexander, who was
one of the main forces behind getting me into ballroom. We met up and worked
on some patterns I wanted to learn, namely the basics for nightclub two step
and folds in WCS. I also went to a WCS practice session with some of the TA's
for a social dance class here on campus, which was awesome. I was nervous the
entire time, but I ended up dancing with one of the TA's. She said that
everything felt solid and awesome, gave me a few pointers on my whip and sugar
tuck, then she told me to work on rolling through. Other than that, she said
everything was solid and I should try to learn new patterns. So, my next goal
is to add more and more patterns to my WCS and figure out the correct way to
roll through. Here's to another successful week!
